Hackbright's and Open Stack's Django Workshop was amazing, and finishin the tutorial made me feel like 
finsihed a marathon or climbed a mountain and on the other side was Candyland slide waiting for me at the top. 

I really appreciated the set up instructions Becka distributed beforehand.
Setting up virtual envs and installing Django was easy (made a little easier b/c I had gone to a PyLadies
workshop where I was already familiar with virtual envs). 

I set everything up and then was eager to start the workshop!
The introduction "why Django" was good, but i didn't appreciate the speaker's info until I was coding. "Why Django?", as a beginner, didn't make sense until I writing the code. The separation of the data, logic, & presentation layers only started to make sense when the tutorial had me writing different files and then flipping back and forth through the different files. 

first emotions excitement pre-workshop

Getting to the your first Django web page with the light blue was a good hit of feeling competent and successful

Writing models felt hard b/c the tutorial instructions were sometime poorly written, having mentors step in and help (and in some cases predict where you might be having trouble) was important to defeat feeling defeated! 
Having the support made one feel you could keep on going even though you felt frustrated or tired.

Mentor that could "translate" the tutorial into "real" english was critical!!!

I got through tutorials 1- 3  (2/3 of tutorial 3)in more than 6 hours during pair programming & with help. 


the 2nd day felt like it would be more of a slog through tutorials 3-5. Without coffee and friendly people seemed there was little reward in slogging through building the model's logic and functions. Having an error felt like falling on your face & Having mentors to pick you up and dust you off and point your tired staggering brain in the right direction was critical. Their patience and goodwill felt like magic restorative potion.

Getting the tests in tutorial 5 to work felt awful, and felt fruitless b/c it didn't seem relevant to making the app work. there was a lot of holding one's breath to find out if something worked or broke. emotionally exhausting. 

After getting the tests to work after help debugging. (help debugging little things are critical!! Indispensible! As a straight up beginner, you can try to match the code to the tutorial all day & not realize the error is NOT on the page you're actually typing up. )


I didn't feel like the finish line was in sight until tutorial 6. & seeing how little more I had to type, made me want to work harder to finish the tutorial. Tutorial 6 felt like a fun ride compared to tutorials 3-5

Seeing the web app display the background image felt like crossing a marathon's finish line. Finishing felt like a runner's high even though I was sitting for 2 days!

Special Thanks!
Hackbright
Aneesh
Becka
Angie
Felix
George
Lisa
Jeremy
Ginna




